# Draft Commands

These commands make use of the [Draft tool](https://github.com/Azure/draft) to allow users to generate build, deployment and workflow files in their local workspace. Starting with a locally running application, the aim is to add the necessary configuration files to containerize and deploy the application to an AKS cluster from GitHub.

Users are expected to use their own systems and processes for branching, committing, reviewing, pushing and merging code changes. The extension does not automatically create PRs on the user's behalf.

### Draft Limitations

Draft's command to generate GitHub workflow files is not sufficiently configurable for the workflows we want to produce. It does not support:
- different resource groups for ACR and cluster
- the location of the deployment files that's different from the repo root (for repositories containing more than one microservice)
- the cluster namespace to deploy to

The `draft info` command [lacks some language-related metadata](https://github.com/Azure/draft/issues/266) that would enable us to present a more intuitive UX for Dockerfile generation. Currently:
- It does not allow us to default the port number based on the language.
- It provides sample image _tags_ (versions) for the builder and runtime images of each language, but it does not state which _image_ these tags are for.

This necessitates some [hard-coded language metadata](./languages.ts), which would ideally be retrieved dynamically from Draft.

## Workflow file generation

Since we are not using Draft for constructing GitHub workflow files, we needed an alternative approach for creating files based on templates.

Our implementation here uses dedicated VS Code API methods that are designed for inserting/updating specific ranges of text, preserving the rest of the document and playing nicely with core editor functionality like undo. This would be hard to achieve using a naive YAML parser/formatter.

The template files are defined as resources in the AKS extension repository, and we use the VS Code [WorkspaceEdit](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/references/vscode-api#WorkspaceEdit) and [DocumentSymbol](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/references/vscode-api#DocumentSymbol) APIs for performing the substitutions.

This provides a proof-of-concept of how we might perform other code manipulation functionality for scenarios that may not involve Draft. An example might be identifying parts of Kubernetes manifests that don't adhere to best practices and adding the ability to update just those parts.

Future scenarios would obviously require more work, but the [baseWorkflowEditor.ts](./baseWorkflowEditor.ts) file provides a starting point for how we might build some domain-specific code editing functionality.

## Future maintenance and feature work

**Remove duplication of effort in generating workflow files.**

We store GitHub workflow file templates in both Draft and this extension. We could resolve this by either:
- Updating Draft to support the same workflow files generated by this extension; or
- Maintaining public template files which could be consumed by Draft and the AKS extension, allowing independent versioning of those files.

**Enhance `draft info` output**.

Being able to [retrieve the image names for builder and runtime images](https://github.com/Azure/draft/issues/266#issuecomment-2053910528) would permit dynamic tag retrieval, meaning less frequent updates to Draft when new language versions are released.

**GitHub workflow authorization**

This work is tracked [here](https://github.com/Azure/vscode-aks-tools/issues/253), with a proof-of-concept currently in a [branch](https://github.com/peterbom/vscode-aks-tools/tree/feature/gh-workflow-authz).
